{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
According to many ancient myths, humans did not invent fire-making \\textit\{de novo\} but rather learned it from other characters, such as Prometheus\\cite\{frazer1930myths\}. These stories reveal how ancient myth-makers already grasped the fundamental importance of social learning dynamics. Fire-making technology would have spread quickly among our ancestors via social learning, as many practices and technologies have since then\\cite\{nielsen2012social\}. Social dynamics are no less relevant in the era of anthropogenic climate change. Current projections of global temperature vary considerably with the assumed trajectory of anthropogenic carbon emissions\\cite\{van2011representative\} - a trajectory governed by human behavior. Additionally, human behavior is itself influenced by changes in climate dynamics, for example extreme weather events or long-range forecasts providing incentive for individuals to adopt mitigative strategies. Thus climate and social dynamics are strongly coupled and should therefore be modeled as such.\\\\\
\
\
The importance of incorporating human behavior into climate projections was recognized by Beckage and colleagues\\cite\{beckage18\}, who recently proposed the Climate Social Model (CSM), a novel framework coupling a sophisticated climate model\\cite\{sterman12\} with a model for human behavioral change based on the theory of planned behavior\\cite\{ajzen91\}. This theory focuses on individual psychology and, as implemented in the CSM, treats social norms as a fixed individual effect. So, when it is scaled up to the population level, it does not capture social dynamic processes occurring between interacting individuals. Because timescale is important in predicting climate trends, we claim social dynamics can strongly determine the trajectory of the socio-climate system, as has been shown for socio-ecological trajectories\\cite\{innes2013impact, henderson2016alternative\}.\\\\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
To support this we report results from a coupled socio-climate model that uses imitation dynamics\\cite\{helbing2010quantitative\} to capture the fundamental human tendency to learn socially (SI Appendix).  In the model, individuals are either \'91mitigators\'92 or \'91non-mitigators\'92 and learn these opinions from others at a specified rate of social learning.  They switch opinions according to a utility function governed by the costs of climate change mitigation, the costs associated with future temperature anomalies, and social norms that reinforce the majority opinion.  This model yields substantially different predictions for different settings of its social parameters.\\\\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Primarily, adding social dynamics slows everything down to the point that the predicted global temperature anomaly can peak anywhere from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) limit\\cite\{pachauri2007ipcc\} of 2 degrees Celsius (in the case of instantaneous social learning) to 5 degrees Celsius (in the more realistic case where social learning unfolds on a generational timescale) (Figure 1a-c). Social norms tend to reinforce current majority opinion and hence have a similar effect: entrenched social norms in support of non-mitigation can suppress the spread of mitigators for decades, even when rising temperatures strongly justify an immediate shift (Figure 1d-f). In such cases, the rate of social learning governs the rate at which social norms are flipped once there is net positive incentive to become a mitigator. This model dynamic echoes not only current climate norms reinforcing non-mitigation\\cite\{stoll2001psychology\} but also past social shifts occurring on decadal timescales, such as evolving social norms about when and where smoking is acceptable.\\\\\
\
\
\
% Choosing a sigmoidal response function\
\
\
\
Despite the growing acceptance of climate change and its consequences, the rate of global $\\text\{CO\}_2$ emissions per capita shows little sign of slowing down (SI Appendix). Temperature records indicate a temperature anomaly of over $1^\{\\circ\}$ above pre-industrial values and $\\text\{CO\}_2$ emissions per capita have reached approximately $1.3\\:\\text\{tC\\:yr\}^\{-1\}$, the highest in history. When considering how individuals respond to changes in temperature, we are therefore inclined to use a sigmoidal function (Methods). This assumes small temperature anomalies (on the order of $1^\{\\circ\}C$ receive low response, as is observed in empirical data (SI Appendix). At a specified threshold temperature, the response function increases in a non-linear fashion, capturing the expected non-linear increase in frequency of climate change disasters as temperature increases \\cite\{lenton2008tipping\}. The response function eventually saturates in accordance with the saturation of an individual's incentive, when there is already enough reason to act.\
\
\
\
\
\
% This justifies taking a temperature response function that, at temperature anomaly of 1 degree, is insignificant to the strength of social norms and the cost of mitigation.\
\
\
\
\\vspace\{1cm\}\
\
We also investigate the effect of individuals basing their cost of climate change on temperature projections as opposed to the current climate. Temperature projections are incorporated in the model using linear extrapolation from temperature change over the previous 10 years (Methods). Under the assumption that individuals solely base their incentive to mitigate on current climate observations, the simulated global temperature anomaly lies well above the two degree target set by the IPCC, and exhibits wide variation on sensitivity analysis (Figure \\ref\{fig:tempProjPlot_lin\}). Should an individual's cost of global warming be associated with projected temperatures, the population movement towards mitigative strategies ignites earlier, reducing the global temperature anomaly significantly.\\\\\
\
\
\
\
%-----Future studies----------%\
This model makes simplifying assumptions that should be relaxed in future work. Agents are assumed homogeneous throughout the population, and thus receive the same incentive to adopt mitigative strategies upon temperature rise. More sophisticated models could permit individuals with a range of utility functions. In particular, treating industrial corporations as separate entities, with utilities biased towards their own economic growth, could significantly alter dynamics. Spatial heterogeneity is also known to affect the dynamics of a wide variety of systems \\cite\{durrett1994importance\}, and can prevent population consensus by allowing pockets of locally homogeneous opinions \\cite\{salathe2008effect\}, commonly referred to as echo chambers \\cite\{del2016spreading\}. Agent based models of social dynamics are able to capture this heterogeneous behavior and so should prove valuable in these investigations.\\\\\
\
Future models could also consider more intricate strategies, such as cumulative and non-cumulative actions towards reducing climate change emissions, and how the cost of these strategies varies given the current level of 'green' technology.\
\
\
\
\\vspace\{1cm\}\
\
\
%----Conclusion--------%\
This relatively simple socio-climate model demonstrates the pertinence of social dynamics when considering climate change trajectories. In contrast to Beckage et al., we use a framework that captures social learning between individuals, a process fundamental to human behavior and decision-making. We expect future research in coupled socio-climate systems will build on the seminal work of Beckage \\textit\{et al\}, and we submit that it is essential for this research to account for dynamic social processes in order to generate accurate predictions of future climate trends. \\\\ \
\
\
}